In the previous video, we have created a simple
python script for network automation on cisco router
If you not sure that you understand
what we have covered in the previous video,
I recommend you to back to that video and
play it again. But if you sure that you understand
that topic, you can continue to this video.
In this video, we are going to learn how to
doing network automation on mikrotik router.
This is the code that we will use in this
video. I will also show you the code from the previous video
Here we can see that we
don’t have many different.
In the cisco code, we need to import time,
I already explained about time in the previous video
But now, for mikrotik code, we don’t
need to import time
Here we define the ip address, username, and
password of the mikrotik router. We call SSH
Client function from paramiko and then we
connect to the mikrotik router using the ip
address, username, and password that we have
defined before.
The different between this two script is,
that we need to invoke shell in the cisco router
but we don’t in the mikrotik router.
Also the keyword to send the command to the
cisco router is send, but in mikrotik we use
exec_command. And we don’t need to delay
the program in mikrotik, but in cisco, we
must sleep the program or the command will
not send to the router successfully.
Don’t forget to always close the ssh session.
Save the code, open a command prompt, see
that we are in the right directory
Here we can see that we have script2.py. Let’s run
the code.
Okay, we have successfully run the code, In this example code, we will create
a bridge interface in mikrotik
and configure the ip address 10.2.2.1 to that bridge interface.
Let’s go to mikrotik terminal and see if
the script is work.
You can see that now we have bridge interface and new ip address
in the mikrotik
Okay, now we are able to doing Network Automation
on Cisco & Mikrotik routers, In the next video,
we will learn how to doing Network Automation
on Cisco & Mikrotik routers in one code.
Thankyou for watching, and see you on the next
video!